---
title: "Planar Defect Layers Template a High-Pressure InBi Polymorph"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/HighPressureInBi2025/
excerpt: 'We combine cluster expansion methods and Monte Carlo simulations to resolve the long-standing controversy about the site disordering in InBi under high pressure. We discovered that configurational disorder is unlikely under ambient conditions.'
date: 2025-07-16
venue: 'Journal of the American Chemical Society'
paperurl: 'https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/jacs.5c06253'
citation: 'Eric A Riesel, Zhenyao Fang, Douglas H Fabini, Alison B Altman, Yue Meng, Sanjit K Ghose, Matthew L Whitaker, Changyong Park, Dmitry Y Popov, Andrew M Rappe, Danna E Freedman. Planar Defect Layers Template a High-Pressure InBi Polymorph. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2025, 147, 30, 26496–26505.'
---
The short- and long-range order of III–V materials under high pressure has long been the subject of debate, with advancements in structural characterization leading to significant revisions to the accepted structural models. Despite these revisions, previous high-pressure structural assignments in the In–Bi system include the site-disordered β-Sn structure type, a structure type demonstrated to be nonexistent in analogous III–V systems. While X-ray diffraction is consistent withsite disordering in InBi at high pressure, cluster expansion calculations indicate that disordering requires temperatures above 3000 K. We propose InBi as a model material for studying unique high-pressure planar defects due to its highly anisotropic stress-dependent properties and structure. Specifically, we identify two sets of planar defects that mimic the diffraction pattern of a site disordered β-Sn structure type and are compatible with the calculated disorder barrier. We derive these defects by symmetry relations over crystallographic transitions. Density functional theory calculations of the proposed defects suggest that these defects are stabilized by diminishing interlayer separations with pressure. Further, we find that one of the proposed defects closely resembles a bulk high-pressure phase of InBi, InBi-ϵ, and we assert that the proposed defects order upon heating, acting as a template for InBi-ϵ growth. The proposed defects and their electronic structure provide a basis for the trend of superconducting critical temperature with increasing pressure. These methods for identifying defects are generalizable to other materials with reports of site disorder at high pressure, prompting a broader search for related high-pressure defects.
